Framework for success in the Data Science Industry
This section will help us focus on how to get a good role in the data science industry. Focus on simple key changes to separate from other candidates. 


Key Areas for Success during the interview process
My Brand
Portfolio, LinkdIn, Github
Clean and concise resume
Portfolio should have clarity, impact, value. It doesn’t need to have very complex projects.
Applying
Before submitting a resume, think about what I really want out of a role. Understanding what drives me is important because passion about what I’m working on makes it easier to continue to learn and have the energy/curiosity to keep going. 
Passion can give you the edge over other candidates.
Interviews
Multistep process that can be exhausting but important to keep a positive attitude because all candidates are going through the same thing.
Take home assignments, phone screens, on site interviews.
Focus on the interviewers enjoying their time with you.


My Brand

Resume
Overall appearance and features
Keep it clean and without too much text. 1-2 pages max.
Name in a big clear font at the top
Outline what you can bring to a role
Mention - “I am looking to solve problems with Data Science solutions”
Mention main skills.
Link Github, LinkdIn and Portfolio
Listing out the work you have done
Less is more, be concise and focus on impact.
Each project needs 3 things:
What you did
How you did it
What was the result or outcome - use tangible figures when possible.
Order of sections of my resume
Name
Brief outline of what you can bring
Work experience and projects
Relevant skills
Training and courses
Add in 1-2 key learning when listing courses
Education
List it higher if it’s relevant to the role
DO NOT PUT HOBBIES AND INTERESTS
Use the space on the page efficiently
DO NOT PUT PHOTO UNLESS REQUESTED
How many different versions should I have?
Try to have a good resume and stick with it.
You can change the order of project if you think a company might take particular interest in one.

Portfolio
Demonstrate your skills and how you think about data science problems from inception to conclusion. The portfolio can also showcase projects for fields you are interested in, if you don’t have experience in that particular field.
What projects should I include?
Pick projects you are interested in, this will allow your passion to shine through when talking about it.
Projects that demonstrate different skills like data cleaning, machine learning, data viz etc.
Pick project where you can formulate a reason for doing it. Think about the project holistically, adding value to a business rather than doing a project in isolation.
What does a good project look like?
Focus on clear impact, not going super complex. Better for the project to be read to the end. Also makes it simpler to explain in interviews.
Frame the project from inception, always know why you are looking to solve this.
Know how you went about solving the problem. Have reasoning for choosing certain techniques over others.
Know what you saw in the results and what it means in real terms.
Code should be clear and commented. Using functions makes it easier to read.
Start with an Overall Summary for each project
This will outline the problem statement, the final technique used and the results.
One paragraph max in length.
This shows the reader the impact of the project right away.
Complete the section last after everything else is done, but should be at the top of the project for the reader.
Run through the data exploration steps you took and what was discovered
List out possible approaches you investigated and the criteria you used to access them.
Describe technical approaches simplistically and intuitively. Show you understand concepts well and help non technical recruiters understand what you’re doing. This will help them feel more confident in moving you forward.
Outline and Justify the chosen approach
Justify your approach and summarize why it was the best one.
Results and Impact
Summarize the results and impact that your solution had on the problem. 

Small Changes for your brand that make a big difference
Get a professional headshot
Use Data Scientist title, even if you don’t have a role yet
Reuse your resume for LinkedIn profile
Add all relevant skills to LinkedIn profile
Post and interact regularly on LinkedIn
Comment and interact on other relevant posts. Even simple comments.


Applying



